{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf500
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red102\green177\blue50;\red255\green255\blue51;\red253\green154\blue9;\red252\green39\blue18;\red164\green8\blue3;
\red133\green0\blue175;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\csgray\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c46532\c73327\c25364;\cssrgb\c99946\c98636\c25320;\cssrgb\c100000\c66638\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c25271\c7591;\cssrgb\c71055\c10387\c0;
\cssrgb\c59982\c16236\c74118;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18200\viewh13260\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs72 \cf2 \cb3 Understanding My Data
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf2 The analysis results comes from the SEDAC database and specifically looks at PM2.5 (particulate matter less than 2.5 microns in diameter). The dataset consists of an average value from 2001-2010 at about a 10km resolution.\
\
PM2.5 danger values are defined in the following way:\cf4 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf5 0.0 - 12.0: Good\cf4 \
\cf6 12.1 - 35.4: Moderate\cf4 \
\cf7 35.5 - 55.4: Unhealthy for Sensitive Groups\cf4 \
\cf8 55.5 - 150.4: Unhealthy\cf4 \
\cf9 150.5 - 250.4: Very Unhealthy\cf4 \
\cf10 250.5 - 500.4: Hazardous\cf4 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Source: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency\
\
From SEDAC: Global Annual PM2.5 Grids from MODIS, MISR and SeaWiFS Aerosol Optical Depth (AOD) represents a decadal (2001-2010) mean concentration of fine particulate matter (solid particles and liquid droplets) that was derived from a combination of MODIS (Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer), MISR (Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer) and SeaWIFS (Sea-Viewing Wide Field-of-View Sensor) AOD satellite retrievals. The purpose is to provide a continuous surface of concentrations (micrograms per cubic meter) of fine particulate matter of 2.5 micrometers or smaller (PM2.5) for health and environmental research. Dataset Summary A global decadal (2001-2010) mean PM2.5 concentration grid was produced as part of the Global Annual PM2.5 Grids from MODIS, MISR and SeaWiFS Aerosol Optical Depth (AOD) data set. The data set represents a series of three-year running mean grids (1998-2012) of fine particulate matter (solid particles and liquid droplets) that were derived from a combination of MODIS (Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer), MISR (Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer) and SeaWIFS (Sea-Viewing Wide Field-of-View Sensor) AOD satellite retrievals. Together the grids provide a continuous surface of concentrations in micrograms per cubic meter of particulate matter 2.5 micrometers or smaller (PM2.5) for health and environmental research. For each satellite-derived PM2.5 source, the total column retrievals of AOD were converted to near-ground PM2.5 levels using the GEOS-Chem chemical transport model to represent local relationships between AOD and PM2.5. The raster grids have a grid cell resolution of 6 arc-minutes (0.1 degree or approximately 10 km at the equator) and cover the global land surface from 70 degrees north to 55 degrees south. Compared to SEDAC\'92s earlier data set, Global Annual Average PM2.5 Grids from MODIS and MISR Aerosol Optical Depth (AOD), v1 (2001-2010), this data set provides higher accuracy; longer temporal range; higher resolution (0.1 x 0.1 degrees); and time varying AOD to PM2.5 relationships, necessary for appropriate representation of trends. Recommended Citation van Donkelaar, A., R.V. Martin, M. Brauer, and B.L. Boys. 2015. Global Annual PM2.5 Grids from MODIS, MISR and SeaWiFS Aerosol Optical Depth (AOD), 1998-2012. Palisades, NY: NASA Socioeconomic Data and Applications Center (SEDAC). http://dx.doi.org/10.7927/H4028PFS. Accessed DAY MONTH YEAR.\
\
Image Service: https://sedac.ciesin.columbia.edu/arcgis/rest/services/sedac/sdei_global_annual_avg_pm2_5_2001_2010_image_service/ImageServer}